# multiplex-imaging-schemas
A library proposing standards for harmonized acquisition of multiplex imaging commonly used in immuno-profiling.

## Summary
The following is a living document, essentially an RFC, around how to best model the various data associated with multiplex imaging technologies used for immuno-profiling. Please comment by submitting a PR requesting changes to the current master document.

### status
This document is completely under consutruction and not ready for comments.

# Components
The following sections detail components of multiplex imaging experiments.

## image-stack
The image stack is a set of images, represented as an nxWxH matrix where **n** is the number of channels measured, and **W,H** are the width and height of each channel. It is assumed that every channel in the image is "registered" and the content of each channel represents a different measurement of the same underlying cells.

**proposal:** A given image stack is saved in two formats. 

- The native format generated by the instrument, in whatever file type or convention that might be. No constraints, can be a zip file of a folder of images.
- The standardized OME-TIFF file where the image can be loaded into common commercial and open-source imaging applications, the channel names and prefered colors are preserved if possible.

## aquisition-properties
These are meta-data associated with the aquisition of the image. These can include variables such as the zoom, the pixel density, exposure time, dwell time etc...

**proposal:** Identify required / common parameters which are necessary to properly quantify the image, or display them in common viewers, and make these required. Then we provide a mechnaism to submit other parameters with no control.
```
required = {
  "pixels_per_cm": int,
  "channel_names": [str,*],
  "channel_colors_rgb": [str,*],
}
```

## technical-masking
This is a way to annotate which pixels in the **image-stack** are to be included in any subsequent analysis. This masking is technical in nature and the areas excluded should be irrelavent to the analysis because they do not meet some quality check, have experimental artifacts, or are simply not applicable.

**proposal:** 





